that the GameStop stuff, for instance,
the things that I had to do was figure
out how we communicate to the public
what was going on with this very complex
situation.
And then also raise billions of dollars
overnight.
>> [music]
>> You're woken up at 5:00 a.m. by a
telephone call saying you need to raise
$3 billion
by the end of the day
or you're toast.
It's a CEO's worst nightmare.
Vlad, the CEO of Robinhood, lived
through this story, came out the other
side stronger than ever.
Vlad's become legendary for this
unflappable leadership through some of
the most intense crises in startup
history.
Robinhood's now a financial services
juggernaut. But Vlad's journey was a
roller coaster from the start.
From the GameStop trading frenzy that
made headlines worldwide and landed him
testifying before Congress
to a full day outage during the COVID
pandemic
to navigating the 2022 market crash that
saw their stock price plummet by more
than 90%
Vlad's been in a 4D CEO roller coaster.
While most CEOs panic under pressure
Vlad gets clarity.
While others make reactive decisions, he
builds methodically with a long-term
road map. Today you'll hear how to stay
calm and make clear decisions when your
company's in crisis mode.
Why wartime mentality should be your
default and not the exception.
The art of rebuilding trust after public
failures.
How to maintain speed and urgency as you
scale to thousands of employees.
And how to balance long-term vision with
short-term agility.
If you're a founder trying to build
resilience into yourself or your company
or if you want to understand what
separates good CEOs from legendary ones
keep listening.
Vlad, good to see you again.
Good to see you. My partner at Sequoia,
Andrew, said of you
you're the steadiest hand he's ever met.
What do you think he meant by that?
Maybe compared to him, he can be a
little bit jittery.
Bit of a jittery guy, always nervous,
when am I going to get the next deal,
but I I love Andrew. I think what he
probably meant was um
you know, he's seen Robinhood go through
some downs, not just ups, and
maybe, you know, a lot of people would
have just
called it in and and given up, but uh
we persevered and and we we worked
through it, and now I believe we're a
much stronger company than
we've ever been.
And I think that's an important quality
of a of a founder. It It's really just
about
how do you handle the situation when
things are maybe unexpectedly
getting worse, and and you have to
respond and make changes.
And also unexpectedly getting better
because
that can also be an opportunity, you
know, things change, maybe your business
gets some tailwinds and you you also
have to be in a position to kind of
capitalize on that without being
distracted. I think maybe by steadiness
he refers to being able to capture
things when when things are going in our
favor and also not getting too
discouraged and being able to pivot
strategically when uh when things are
not. I think so, too. When I look back
at HubSpot, I used to describe HubSpot
as a roller coaster.
Uh you guys are more like a 4D roller
coaster where you're upside down the
whole time. Like there's been a lot of
Those are my favorite ones. Yeah, and
you're in one. And like just to name a
few, like every year for a while, like
you had one. The beginning of COVID, you
guys had that big outage for a whole
day.
Uh 2021, of course, all the GameStop
stuff. Uh they make a movie about you,
you're testifying in front of Congress.
Uh 2022, the economy shifted, you lost
half your users, pivoted the whole darn
company.
2023, the SVB stuff was pretty bad.
Which was the worst?
And can you talk a little bit about like
what it was like going through it and
how kind of your body reacted and how
you engage with the company and the
market when that was going on cuz most
people freak out. Yeah, a lot of people,
I think, when they talk about our
crises, they probably would say GameStop
because that was the most public.
And and I think
each one tends to drown out the previous
one. So, before GameStop, there was a
lot of chatter about the outage right at
the beginning of the COVID pandemic that
that you mentioned. Those things, I
think, in hindsight
weren't that bad to navigate through
because it was an acute moment, the
worst of it is right at the beginning,
and then once you kind of like make it
through and you're in the clear, it's
clean up.
You probably You've probably been
through some of those yourself. I'd say
2022, the market turning was more
extreme for me because that was like a
little bit of a slow burn. First, there
was signaling by the Fed that interest
rates were going to go up because
inflation was looking bad. So, it
started out as this general signaling,
but the market got it. Right? And I
would say as one of like the recently
IPO'd growth companies of that era, end
of 2021, we kind of got hit first
because
when when people start taking these
macro things into effect and
you know, adjusting their portfolios
they they take risky assets off first,
and so you have crypto for those that
are interested in that, and recently
IPO'd growth stocks are are in that
bucket.
And you know, we were among the most
recent IPOs. We just like snuck in kind
of right at the end of that window in
hindsight without realizing it.
I I think that if we'd waited a couple
more months, we probably wouldn't have
been able to go public until
maybe 2024. And so
yeah, it was just a slow burn. Stock
price consistently and steadily
decreasing from a high of, I think, in
the '80s right after our IPO to
below $8. I think maybe even below $6
would have been our all-time low. We
were trading below cash. And that was
tough because you have employees
wondering what's going on. The street
just like turned very bearish, but
behind that was a business whose
fundamentals did work very, very well in
a zero interest rate environment where
there was a lot of trading. But in a
high interest rate environment, we
weren't really built to succeed in that
environment.
And I took a little bit of solace in
the fact that I felt like we had a lot
of levers. We ultimately used that as an
opportunity to diversify the business.
And a lot of other companies didn't have
those levers. So, if you were a mortgage
company, you basically had to batten
down the hatches and figure out how to
make it through till rates went back
down again.
Which still hasn't really happened. So,
I think those companies had a tough
situation. But it was painful
throughout, and that was a little bit
more of like a okay, each day is a
little bit worse than the last, and
there's a lot of challenges, and that
goes on for 400 to 500 days at least
before you start seeing some of the
fruits of of the labor that ended up
turning things around.
And like inside of your body
you get a call probably at 2:00 in the
morning about the GameStop thing. Going
on in your head, do you get clarity, do
you get confusion? You bring your team
together? Like you remember when you got
the call? Yes. Um
you go through a few things, right? Uh
are the best people awake? Are they in
need of anything? Uh and of course, if
the answer to
the first one is no, you have to make
sure you get them in the room, get them
right away, and you have to know who the
best people are.
Which I think requires being intimately
familiar with the details.
And if they need anything, we drop
everything and make sure they they have
those things. And then are there things
that I need to do that perhaps
only I can do in that situation. That
the GameStop stuff, the things that I
had to do was figure out how we
communicate to the public what was going
on with this very complex situation.
And then also raise billions of dollars
overnight.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah. So, then and then, you know, that
was actually kind of nice because those
were pretty clear
goals. My guess
is when those things are happening and
you gathered the team at 5:00 in the
morning on a Zoom
I would imagine people are pretty
panicked.
And that my guess is what Andrew meant
is in the face of big adversity and some
weird going down that you didn't
expect
you get clarity
and you're very clear with your team and
you calm them down. I think that's the
opposite reaction of 99% of humanity.
Yeah. And I I think that's part of your
special sauce.
Yeah, I think that's right, and I
wouldn't
oversell it too much. I mean, I I don't
know if I always make the right
decisions in that moment, but you
probably the variance between a decision
under fire and one where
or just like in a normal meeting is is a
little bit lower. I think of HubSpot we
had times of relative peace and some
times of war. I kind of enjoyed the war
time. Do you think about it like that or
is it always war time or how do you
think about that? I think it's always
war time.
Yeah. Yeah. Ideally actually the war
time is
internally created.
Cuz then it's under your control. You're
not subject to like some some other
people's wars that are being imposed on
you. I think if you get into, oh, this
is peace time,
you know, things are going smoothly. In
hindsight I've had moments where, you
know, I'm sitting around the table with
my co-founder or my executive team
that's like, oh, there's really not too
many problems going on right now. And at
the time it felt good, but in hindsight
I was like,
we probably weren't executing
aggressively enough.
I see.
And in all of these cases you sort of
tested your customers trust in you.
And you kind of lost a ton of trust in
all those cases, but built it back.
Can you just talk about how you thought
about building that back? How do you
build back trust?
What metrics are you looking at? Like
you're obsessed with NPS or It's easy to
lose trust. It's very hard to build it
back and you've done it multiple times
here. What advice do you have for others
on this channel?
>> Yeah, we do look at NPS and, you know,
NPS definitely took uh a dive during the
COVID times, during during GameStop in
particular.
You see it in these
public incidents,
whether it's the outages or sort of like
the the GameStop incident.
And it's true that it can go from very
high to low practically overnight, Yeah.
but the reverse is rare, right? I mean,
maybe if you have a really big
announcement people get excited about,
you'll gain five points of NPS,
but the gains are always slower and more
gradual than the losses. I didn't really
believe it when I heard it that, you
know, trust is easily lost and hard
gained, but but I think it's true in the
data.
So,
we kind of like looked for magic
bullets. Like can we
say these magic words or issue a blog
post, you know, and and make everything
okay or come up with some gesture, but
really what it is is just improving your
products over time. And if you keep
doing good things,
and then invariably there will be
some mistakes along the way for sure,
but minimize those mistakes, make sure
you don't do the same mistake over and
over again. I think that's a big killer.
Then you you see that gradual increase.
And over many, many years that compounds
and, you know, you could be back at
all-time highs. I think you've seen it
happening with some of the great
companies. You know, Nike had had their
challenges uh back in the early '90s.
Uh Apple certainly had their challenges.
Domino's Pizza or was it Papa John's?
One of the one of the two I think was a
a famous uh a famous trust case study.
The pepperoni wasn't that good, but they
really just fixed it. So,
it can happen.
So, in all those cases trust took a hit.
NPS went from way down.
In your head you're like, in 12 months I
can get it back up to where it is in 6
months or like how do you how do you
think about that? So, we had a few of
these we had an outage at HubSpot in
2019 on the last day of the quarter and
we lost a lot of customers. Our NPS
tubed.
And it was a it was about a year and a
half before the NPS caught back up to
where it was. Yeah, I think it it can
take years. Uh of course we have
goals. We try to
minimize it, but there's really no
better way that I found than just
improving the other things other than,
you know, maybe the the acute brand
episode that you had. I don't think you
can kind of counteract that, but if you
just keep making your business better,
then
the effects of, you know, any individual
crisis over time will fade, but then the
the effects of improving your product
are persistent, right? Those those just
uh will continue.
Okay, I spend a lot of time, Vlad,
coaching about 20 different scale-up
CEOs.
A lot of the companies there's there's
scaling get frustrated
that the intensity in the company goes
down, the tempo goes down. My sense of
you guys is the tempo has stayed high
and you're very quick. Like CowShare got
approved as a trading platform. Within a
couple weeks you were live with that
that system. What advice do you have for
founders that are scaling that don't
want to turn into a big slow company? I
think the main thing is you actually
have to care about it.
You know, a lot of these people are
sitting around uh around the table
saying, gosh, you know, we're we're
moving a lot slower now. They complain
about it, but do they really care enough
to
to fix it? I think that you have to talk
about it, not just
to the public or to your friends, but
also to your team. You have to measure
it. So, if if you if you say, oh, we
want to move faster, we want to have
high velocity, we want to ship more,
how do you do that? And how do you know
that you've got that? So, I I think
measurement is important. You have to
communicate that it's important. You
have to measure it. You have to have
strategies for how to improve it.
Right? And that involves looking at
areas where maybe it's not doing so well
and comparing it with the areas where
you are moving a little bit faster
and seeing, you know, what are those
folks doing over there that that you
should incorporate. There was always a
struggle in my mind at HubSpot. Like
we'd roll something out and some things
take a while.
And sort of uh a tension in my mind
between kind of urgency and patience on
stuff. Do you feel that tension in your
head? Like you got to be patient. This
is going to take time. These big
initiatives can take a while. versus
like always pressing and creating
urgency on everything. I think that
there's sort of a difference between the
tactical and the strategic urgency. I
think that if you have a lot of
uncertainty in in
what the right
thing to do is, it makes sense to gather
more information. When the right thing
to do is clear and everyone is aligned,
uh at that point you you have to move
through with maximal urgency.
And I think a lot of times what can be a
trap is sort of like uh urgency quality
trade-off, right? If we move fast, we'll
end up having to cut corners. My
experience is you have to demand both.
It's like you have to move fast and I
don't want any corners cut. If you look
at a really good
engineer, the best engineers move the
fastest and also have
high quality code with no bugs. It's not
really a trade-off. It's sort of like
you can find it within one person.
And then if you get a team of those
people together and you sort of like
create the right incentive structures
for you to have incredibly high density
of of great people like that,
then I think you don't have that
trade-off. You know, for some people
moving faster does lead to more
mistakes, but but not for everyone. I
think you have to find you have to for
the best people it's not true.
I used to call that the tyranny of or.
Everyone bring me or and I'm going to be
like, how about an and? Just once let's
do an and.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah.
And they also say if you need something
done, give it to your busiest person,
right? So, there's some counterintuitive
advice there where,
you know, people just great people just
find a way.
I kind of agree.
Um okay, one of the hacks that some of
these founders are doing
is they're requiring people to be in the
office 7 days a week.
Yeah.
What's your take on that? What I notice
like my generation, we sort of followed
the Steve Jobs playbook. It feels like
this generation follows the Elon
playbook and
and both playbooks are great. Elon's
playbook is a little bit of like, you're
working 180 hours a week, you're in the
office, you're sleeping in the office.
Yeah. And a hack is a minimum of the
996, 9:00 to 9:00, 6 days a week, but a
lot of them are like 7 days a week. And
it doesn't scale, but I'm seeing them
push it beyond 100, 200 employees. It's
interesting. What any take on that?
That's an extreme approach. It works for
some people.
The trade-off is you're not going to get
people that are sticking around the
company Yeah.
>> right? Because
it's hard to work 7 days a week for
10 years if, you know,
you want to have a girlfriend or
children that you see. So, there there's
an extreme for sure. The right balance
is like some number greater than 40, but
perhaps less than 180.
And I'm not exactly sure
what the number is. I mean, obviously we
uh we we like to push it and work hard
here and
hold ourselves to a high standard. Okay,
related to this, I met with the founder
yesterday of a red hot AI company
>> [snorts]
>> and he showed me his phone and he just
showed me all the Slack messages, all
the email messages, all the texts, all
the WhatsApp. And he's like, since we
closed our round and we're getting a
little bit famous here,
I'm completely overcome and inundated
with just inbound stuff and I spend all
my day trying to get through that. And
he said, "Brian, how did you manage the
chaos?" Yeah.
I thought that was a good question. I'm
curious how you'd answer that. There's
really
a finite amount of time and a finite
number of those messages that probably
deserve and benefit from
the founder's attention and
decision-making ability.
It's tricky because you want to see
them, you know, sometimes automatic
delegation doesn't work because
someone's not going to know how to
handle it.
But you you don't want to
spend all of your time processing them.
>> [clears throat]
>> So,
I think the the best way is to just have
people around you and, you know, if you
don't add them one at a time
deliberately,
that you can offload the the majority of
that work to. You seem to be very good
at aligning your vectors over there. How
do you decide which bets to play? How do
you keep your vectors aligned? How often
do you rejigger the priorities? What's
your planning look like? Like, how's all
that work as you're scaling it up? I
think it depends a lot on what's going
on. There like market conditions, what
we see doing really well in the
business, what we see that we could
devote more resources to.
I think a lot of times
you're kind of like beholden to a
structure, right? Annual planning or
>> Yeah.
quarterly planning Yeah. You know, MBRs,
QBRs, monthly business review, quarterly
business review.
There there's these structures that make
it so that you either have to plan when
you don't really need to plan
or you're just
waiting too long to respond to things
because maybe, you know, something
happened, but you just had your
quarterly business review where you fix
the plan and it's locked in and it's
this heavyweight thing. My push has been
to just minimize the time spent
planning.
Minimize it to like a couple of days.
That's that's the goal rather than
having it be this multi-week waterfall
thing. Can Can we do our all of our
planning in, you know, less than a week
and then just keep pushing on that until
you reach a point where it's obviously
too little and then and then we can
readjust.
How's this cycle work with your fiscal
year? Like, how do you actually do it?
Usually what we do is we have kind of
our long-term vision
that goes out 10 years. How often do you
change that?
Uh I think from time to time when
something major changes, like we have a
very clear epiphany or some data from
some projects that are at some level of
maturation, there can be a a pretty big
change.
So, we had a pretty big one a couple
years ago and
it then led to
an overhaul of our vision and how we
communicated it. I think the the core of
it was the same throughout the entire
life of the company. We We know where we
wanted to get to, which is just everyone
using Robinhood for all of their
financial needs. The path became more
clear. We We got better at articulating
it and it culminated in an investor
event that we held in New York in
December of last year
where we actually invited
our public company analysts,
retail analysts as well, this community
of folks on YouTube that that analyzes
companies. We had a nice event where we
sort of like brought out our general
managers. We talked a lot about the arcs
of our business. We answered some
questions. I think that was very, very
good. Roughly every year we we try to
look at the document, revisit it. We get
our best people around the company. I
try to get together people at all levels
or just, you know, the highest
performers. That's about
uh 150.
And we we like to and, you know, there's
individual contributors, there's folks
that are more junior.
And we like to bring them together from
time to time to, usually once or twice a
year.
How painful is it coming up with that
list and how pissed are people when
they're like a director or VP don't get
invited to that and the individual
contributor that works for them does?
You just have to make it as meritocratic
as possible and generally I find people
know who the best people are. If you ask
someone, they're like, "Oh, yeah, of
course. That that person should be
in that gathering. I feel better as like
a shareholder and an employee knowing
that they're in the room."
I often found that the individual
contributors were the best in those
settings.
>> Yeah. What What you don't want is just
like a meeting of the top executives at
the top of the org chart. Right. I agree
with that. Okay, so once a year you do
it. So, your fiscal year starts Is it
the month before? Is it 3 months before?
And how rigid is it when you set it for
the next year? I think there's a couple
of things, right? So, we have the
financial plan.
And the the financial plan, I think we
we try to hold ourselves to. We have the
vision
which
is a slightly higher level document
where we kind of talk through the big
trends that we have in our business and
macro, how we're going to respond to
them.
And then we do a diff essentially. We
say, "Okay, this is what we thought the
world was going to be in our business
was going to be last year. This is where
we were wrong." And that happens about
once a year.
I'd say that's the first part. Then it
feeds into sort of like uh
resource allocation financial plan that
we try to hold ourselves to because
it ends up being what
analysts actually start modeling and
you know, you're public and you have to
you have to have some level of revenue
and cost predictability. For a while
that's been headcount, resource
allocation, what bets are we funding?
Now we've been moving towards thinking
of AI as another component of that. So,
how much computer we are we investing
in? Can we actually track each
department or business and compare them
to businesses that, you know, we
consider best in class, they're using AI
as another point of leverage. That's
starting to like
get into the planning a little bit more.
We try to limit the blast radius. So, I
mean, with with the financial plan and
the projections, the finance team's very
tightly involved and
uh everyone's aware of it, but it's not
like
thousands of people are are
collaborating to to create this
artifact. I think the folks that own it
is a relatively limited group of people.
We sort of did the same and then kind of
beneath the financial plan it was like,
what are the bets this year? What are
the things we want to like when we do
the diff, there's a big diff year on
year. We'd have three or four. I have a
comment and a question about that. One
of my comments is it seemed as we got
bigger, we could do less of those big
things, but we did them very, very, very
well. Like, they actually worked. Yeah.
Like, ironically, as the bigger you get,
the less you get done, but man, is there
a lot of leverage in it. Do you feel
that? One thing that we've experimented
with relatively recently
and I think it's worked well is having
these product events.
So, this started for us early 2024.
We're like, "We should have a product
event. We have some cool products that
are very close to being announced. Can
we do it a little bit better than just
blog post and, you know, I I post a few
tweets on social media."
Right. And and that became our first
gold event, which we called the new gold
standard. It was in New York. It had
kind of
art deco theme. We had a lot of fun with
it. And I thought it was it was unique.
Yeah. We announced the gold credit card,
the Robinhood gold card.
And and that product has done very, very
well. So, I think it helps when the
first event has like
something very nice you can announce.
And then we followed that up with with
Hood Summit, our active trader event
last year where we announced Robinhood
legend.
And that that was very good, too. That
was a little bit of a different
our active traders to the event. And so,
it wasn't just a keynote where we
announced products, but there was also
community building and they could talk
to each other and we had like
lunches where I would talk to the
customers.
And and that was very good. That was in
Miami. So, we did two last year.
And this year we've already done three
with Hood Summit V2 coming in a couple
of months. So, we had our crypto event
just now. We had a small active trader
live stream
which we're experimenting with as well.
Can we do an event where we announce
products, but it's not like huge
production value where we're flying
people around. I think that worked very
well.
And we brought our gold event to San
Francisco. I think it's been fun and it
also
lets you put a specific deadline where
external things happen. I think that can
be very, very effective where you're
trying to move fast. When you know
there's a deadline and you have to have
things ready and they have to be ready
in a state where you show them to
customers.
That that that can be a powerful forcing
function. Okay, so underneath the
planning process is, "Hey, we have these
deadlines we need to meet. Uh let's make
sure we nail these projects." I got
that.
>> Yeah, a lot of the planning when I meet
with the individual GMs and teams,
the event provides some structure around
that, right? It's sort of like, "What
are you going to have ready for Hood
Summit 2025?" And increasingly it's
like, "Let's look ahead to
how Hood Summit 2026 can be even better
than that." Cuz we have to put the
pieces together for for that. We haven't
started thinking about Hood Summit 2030
yet, but I think that's probably the
sign of uh
an organization that's that's
functioning very well. You should also
have a view as to
what the long-term event is that that
you're culminating towards and it it
could be, you know, multiple years of
work.
And talk about slack. Like the world of
AI is changing extremely fast. Even
within your annual planning cycle,
things change that are important, I'm
sure, to you. And even that Cal-she
thing around the election, like that got
approval and like within a couple weeks
you did it. Like you must build in some
slack so you can spin up teams to do
things outside of the normal big launch
events and things like that. How do you
do that? How much slack do you build in?
Is it purposeful? How's that work?
Yeah, we we try never to have slack. I
think for that particular case, when new
information comes in, you have to
re-prioritize in real time. So, for the
election contracts thing that you're
referring to,
we we were somewhat lucky in a sense
that or
the past year plus, we had been working
on a derivatives business.
You know, we have a licensed futures
commissions merchant.
We brought in a GM to run that
who's been very good. And the plan was
Hood Summit
2024,
we would launch futures outrights. So,
the ability to trade futures 24/5 in the
Robinhood app.
And we knew that event contracts were a
thing, right? That we're excited about.
We thought that markets were very
interesting. It was a new asset class
and we saw a lot of potential
for that to be the way that futures and
derivatives enter the the mainstream.
Cuz futures been very it's sort of like
a niche technical asset class.
Only the most hardcore active traders
have traditionally been been trading
futures. With event contracts,
prediction markets, we saw that
changing.
And we we sort of like knew that
politics
was going to be very important, but we
didn't see a path. So, when that Cal-she
decision came,
we got together and we were like it it
looks like this is going to happen for
the election. Yeah. And we were
fortunate that we had a lot of the
regulatory infrastructure in place to do
it because we'd been working on the the
futures outrights offering. And we had
to flip some things around. So, rather
than outrights first and then prediction
markets,
we we decided to do prediction markets
first to customers. Punt outrights a
little bit. It wasn't like free and we
had slack in the system and people were
just sitting around that could pick up
the work because if you have that,
you got to make sure those people are
are contributing. I mean, not just for
your business' sake, but for for their
own sake. There's too many critical
things to have people just
not working on them. So, 10-year
mission,
annual strategy sessions with 150 people
contributing.
Um big product launches kind of
structure your year. No slack in the
system, but if something big comes up,
you kind of rejigger. I think I've got
the Vlad. Well, I think there's also
another thing with the the 10-year
vision. We've tried to have 10-year
visions before.
And I don't know if you've come across
this issue with them, but
I think at the first approximation to a
10-year vision is you just
put all the things that you want to do
that are in your mind right now onto a
timeline. And what ends up happening is
all the exciting initiatives are like
years one and two.
And then as you get further along
and you get to like year 10,
you look at this thing and you're like,
"Wow, all all of my low priority
initiatives are are just there." So, I
think in that a naive approximation, it
doesn't actually reflect the reality.
And the reality is
the 10-year vision you should work
backwards from. That should be really,
really big. And you're not going to work
on those things 9 years from now. You
actually have to work on them now and
they have to like build upon
one another so that
you actually get to to where you think
you should be in 10 years.
I like to think of them as arcs.
And and you have like uh an arc that
you're in right now and then you have a
medium-term one and then we have our
10-year arc
which is going to feel slow at first,
but eventually it's just going to
take over the entire business. And and
you have to invest in that 10-year arc
right now knowing that the ultimate
return is going to be big, but but
actually delayed. And I think you have
to communicate that to
the company and to the street in our
case and make sure that they understand
the investments. I think Meta actually
did a good job of this.
Yep. You know, you probably seen that
slide from
you know, 2018 or so where they talk
about the long-term bets and it's
AI reasoners and, you know, virtual
reality and I think they had a a plan
around giving internet to everyone. And
then you look back and that was almost
10 years ago. A lot of it is actually
things that they've been building
towards.
Yeah.
Uh Vlad, you strike me as being a very
good CEO. Your market cap would indicate
so. Who's on your Mount Rushmore of
CEOs? Who do you look up to emulate? Who
taught you how to do all this
When I was getting started, I thought
that that was sort of uh the model. If
you're successful, you have to have
someone
take you under their wing when you're
young and you don't know what
what you're doing and they can kind of
show you the ropes. Cuz I think you hear
these stories of
Steve Jobs calling up uh Bill Hewlett
and asking for some kind of like part
for a a radio and then Bill Hewlett
invites him over to his house, gives him
the part and he ends up interning at
Hewlett-Packard. When I was, you know, a
seed stage entrepreneur trying to make
it work,
not a lot of these big people wanted to
waste their time helping me out, right?
Like they were just too busy. When
it became clear that
we were an important company and we had
done very, very well, that
you know, those opportunities came up.
I've had,
you know, mentors. I've had board
members. My co-founder, obviously. But
yeah, I I wouldn't say there's been one
CEO in particular that
has like helped me tremendously.
>> You were co-CEOs the first several years
of the company.
And my sense is investors in Silicon
Valley kind of cringe at that and is
discouraged. Should there be more
co-CEOs? Is it a better idea than
investors think?
Um you pulled it off for a while. Like
what are the
you know, what's the magic? How did you
get it to work? I keep seeing it more
and more, actually. I think there's pros
and cons, obviously. I think at early
stage it can actually be rather helpful
Mhm. because the downside is when you
have important decisions that you have
to make and two people have to align on
on those decisions. That can slow you
down. It can cause
politics and issues when you have some
executives.
But the upside is that when there's not
too many of those things, you got two
people that are pushing hard and
extremely aggressively as as partners.
And and I think that can be very, very
good. So, you know, in the in the early
stages, we didn't have a ton of decision
overhead. It was very clear what we had
to do.
We had to ship the app and one of us was
doing design, the other one was doing
engineering and
you know, it was like the app had to
work and it had to be successful and
robust and we had to figure out how to
grow it. I think it worked very
successfully for us. You think it's an
emerging idea and it's a better idea
than investors think. Like there should
be more of them, particularly in the
early stage, but maybe it doesn't scale.
I'm putting words in your mouth, but is
that what you would say? I wouldn't even
say necessarily that I'd make a
generalization. I mean, some businesses
probably do it for a while. You look at
I mentioned Hewlett-Packard. I think
those guys were
in and out of the business for multiple
decades, right? They were like I don't
know if they were technically co-CEOs.
They're pretty rare, actually. Well, you
got Netflix, right? Netflix, Oracle. I
don't know how many CEOs Oracle has.
Salesforce at one point had at least two
CEOs. Um okay. A lot of the listeners,
Vlad, are
young CEOs on their way up trying to
scale their companies.
Advice for them. What are the big
mistakes that people make? What are the
best practices?
What's the non-obvious stuff that they
should be doing?
I think a lot of the advice that you
read and that people parrot around is
wrong or misguided. I mean, I I wouldn't
I wouldn't spend a lot of time just like
looking on Twitter and gauging how to
run your company. I think the most
important thing is to figure out what
you actually need to deliver and work
backwards from that. So, the more real
feedback you can get from customers and
from actual things that
relate to the functioning of your
company. They then then you have a loop
that you can iterate on, right? I need
this thing to happen for my business. I
need this thing to happen internally and
you can like focus on that.
Then you can improve it. Yeah, generally
like reasoning by analogy and saying,
"Oh, you know, this person tried this
thing here. Let me incorporate it."
I think is a is a less effective way to
run the company.
What does the Twittersphere get wrong
about being a CEO and scaling a
business?
I try to not even read it, to be honest.
Like I think when I come across it, I
actually say, "You know, I'm I'm not
interested in this." Okay, I think that
was really good advice. Like get locked
into the customer, follow the customer,
get feedback. As it scales, like you've
scaled to 15,000 employees, how do you
stay on the coal face? How do you keep
getting the feedback from the frontline
employee, from the customer, and not
lose it in translation through the
layers? Yeah, I think that can be very
challenging. I encourage all of the
executives, everyone in my in my broader
leadership team, to do two things.
One, do customer support calls. We built
some structure around this. Like you you
can visit a lot of our locations and
actually sit down. We We do customer
support out of lots of places around the
country.
Florida, Texas, Denver, to name a few.
At least once a year, I do a trip where
I'm actually just sitting around and and
doing tickets, right?
By phone, by chat. I'm licensed now, so
I can do
uh more tickets. I'm a licensed broker.
Uh but yeah, it's it's something that I
care a lot about and there's always high
signal because even though I'm only
doing it for, you know, one or two days,
you get to see patterns, you learn
things, you hear the same thing over and
over again. You know, it's not usually
the things that get serviced
through through the multiple layers.
But they're important. And then I also
like to encourage people to sit down,
talk to customers, and do UX research.
So, we do that both for existing
products that are out and trying to see
how customers are actually using the
products. And also products early in the
life cycle where, you know, we go to
customers' homes or we go on location
and we actually try to get in their
heads a little bit deeper. And we try to
open that up as much as possible. So,
that if you want to participate and
observe research, uh
we we have mechanisms to do that here in
person.
Got it.
Okay, Vlad, I think we're out of time.
You're a You're a mensch. You're
fantastic CEO. I really admire what
you've done, and hopefully the listeners
will get a lot out of this. Thank you
very much. Likewise. Yeah, thank you so
much.
Okay, I hope you enjoyed the interview
with Vlad. I enjoyed speaking with him
and learned a lot. I've actually
interviewed recently Matt Mullenweg from
WordPress, Parker Conrad from Rippling,
and kind of blended it with my own
experiences.
They've all been through major crises.
The best CEOs use the term, "I never
waste a crisis." I use that over and
over and over again at HubSpot. And
yeah, I should have that tattooed on my
arm. In the fog of war, things are
foggy.
I I'll admit I was a little foggy during
crises. Vlad's very clear. The other
thing he said that I loved is
it's always wartime. Even when there
wasn't a war, he created a war.
And HubSpot wasn't quite like that. It
was sort of like we would have crises
and then peacetime. And
I was very much a wartime person and
didn't really enjoy the peacetime as
much. But I like the way he keeps the
pace on and the pressure on inside of
Robinhood. He said something that I
found was true in HubSpot. If you need
something done, give it to your busiest
person, which is the exact opposite of
what you would think, but really worked
for me in crises and big moments in
HubSpot.
Those are some of my takeaways. I
thought he I think he's very sharp. He's
built an amazing company. I'm super
impressed. I hope you liked it. If you
want to keep the conversation going,
ping me on X at @bhalligan.
Take care.
>> [music]